In this lecture you will learn what
mocking is?
why we needed and how it works?
To mock means to mimic or to imitate.
In day-to-day life we do it to make fun
of someone but in the world of
programming we do it for very serious
unit testing if class-A depends on users
Class B and if we are unit testing Class-A
then we will
mockout class B and all the methods on
class B that class A uses.The mark
object will then take the place of the
real object be the idea of unit testing
is to test our cold with all testing its
dependencies the pier is that each unit
is tested on its own and when they all
are integrated they will work great.
Let's consider a java EE example wherein
we have the reservation controller or
UI component calling into the reservation BO
so the reservation controller
depends on the reservation BO which
post the business logic in the BO
calls into a DAO which does the
database operations for us using DBC
hibernate extra. Now if we are testing
the reservation controller unit testing
it with mock out the reservation BO
and all the methods on that reservation BO
which the reservation controllers method
are using and test all the public
methods on the reservation controller in
isolation.
similarly we are testing the reservation
BO will mock out the reservation DAO
and all the method calls that the
reservation BOs method are making
into the reservation DAOs method
and test the public methods
on reservation BO in isolation. Locking
involves three important steps stubbing
Setting the expectations and then
Verifying.We first stubout the
reservation BO class or mock the
reservation BO class and set the
expectations on
what the methods of the reservation BO
should do and the reservation
controllers unit test are run and the
restoration controller method calls into
the reservation BOs method, we are
going to tell what those methods or
how those methods should behave using a
mocking framework. Finally we will
verify using the mocking frameworks API
we will verify that the reservation
controller is
in fact calling into the
methods of the reservation BO as we
have expected. Those are the mockout methods.
Mockito is one popular mocking framework
that provides us all these three to stub
and set expectations we can either use
annotations are there are static methods
which we can use like mock which will
stub out the dependent objects for us.
Then we can use the when methods the
thenReturn the thenThrow and there are a  lot of
other methods which we can use to set
the expectations or to stubout all the
methods on the dependant classes
Finally, we can verify if the mockedout
methods are being called by using
verify , matchers and so on
To summarize from this lecture you have
learned that mocking is where we test
a unit in isolation that is unit testing
mocking enables it or mocking
compliments unit testing by allowing us
to mockout all the dependent classes
and the methods that are used. We usually
have three steps when we mock one is stubbing
out then setting expectations and
verifying it marketing is a very popular
mocking framework that used as the API to
do those three that is stubbing, setting
expectations and verifying.